README.md, before:

# LoraWan Soil Sensor, a MKR WAN 1310 CSU Soil Sensor

This repo shows how to connect a CSU soil sensor to a MKR WAN 1310 to give the sensor the ability to communicate via LoraWAN.

- This project was build off of work done by [amalaquias](https://github.com/amalaquias).
    - https://github.com/waggle-sensor/summer2022/tree/main/aldo

---

## Table of Contents
1. Hardware Needed
1. Installing Software
1. Connecting MKR WAN 1310 to Sensor
1. Connect MKR WAN 1310 to Computer
1. Testing Soil Sensor Using Chirpstack

## Hardware Needed

- Micro USB Wire (other end must be able to connect to your computer)
- [Arduino MKR WAN 1310](https://store-usa.arduino.cc/products/arduino-mkr-wan-1310?selectedStore=us)
- Modified Colorado State University soil sensor with four jumper wires with female input
- LoRaWAN Gateway
    - we used [Rak Discover Kit 2](https://store.rakwireless.com/products/rak-discover-kit-2?variant=39942870302918)

## Installing Software

1. To connect to the MKR WAN 1310 board, you will need to install the [Arduino IDE](https://support.arduino.cc/hc/en-us/articles/360019833020-Download-and-install-Arduino-IDE)
1. Once you installed the IDE, you need to further install the board's software support by following the [SAMD21 core for MKR boards Documentation](https://docs.arduino.cc/software/ide-v1/tutorials/getting-started/cores/arduino-samd)

   <img src='./images/software_download.jpeg' alt='software download' height='200'>
1. You will also need the library for mkrwan. Under Library Manager, look up "mkrwan" and install "MKRWAN by Arduino".

   <img src='./images/library_download.jpeg' alt='library download' height='400'>
    
    >NOTE: At the time of configuring the board MKRWAN_v2 was not used because of bug issues related to the library.

## Connecting MKR WAN 1310 to Sensor

1. Grab the soil sensor

    <img src='./images/sensor.jpeg' alt='Sensor' height='400'>

2. Connect the wires from the sensor to the MKR WAN 1310 as shown:

    <img src='./images/sensor_connected.jpeg' alt='Connected Board' height='500'>

    > Note: red wire is for power, black is for ground, white for soil moisture, and blue for soil temperature

## Connect MKR WAN 1310 to Computer

1. Connect the board to your computer with the Micro USB wire
   1. You should see a green light glow on the board
1. Go to Tools in Arduino IDE and select `FILL OUT` for Board and select the correct serial port for the arduino as shown:

    `IMAGES GO HERE`

## Testing Soil Sensor Using Chirpstack

[Chirpstack](https://www.chirpstack.io/) was used to setup our LoRaWAN network and a RAK Discover Kit 2 was used as our Gateway.

1. Retrieve your MKR WAN 1310's DevEUI by using `main.ino` in your `Arduino IDE`. The serial monitor will display your DevEUI.

    <img src='./images/DevEUI.jpeg' alt='Connected Board' height='400'>

    >NOTE: The program will fail because the device hasn't been given an App key

1. Using Chirpstack's UI, add your device using `OTAA` following [Chirpstack's Documentation](https://www.chirpstack.io/docs/guides/connect-device.html)

1. Once you've added your device, generate an application key or create one via the 'OTAA Keys' tab.

    <img src='./images/app_key.png' alt='Connected Board' height='400'>

Commit message:

added to testing soil sensor using chirpstack

README.md, after:

# LoraWan Soil Sensor, a MKR WAN 1310 CSU Soil Sensor

This repo shows how to connect a CSU soil sensor to a MKR WAN 1310 to give the sensor the ability to communicate via LoraWAN.

- This project was build off of work done by [amalaquias](https://github.com/amalaquias).
    - https://github.com/waggle-sensor/summer2022/tree/main/aldo

---

## Table of Contents
1. Features
1. Hardware Needed
1. Installing Software
1. Connecting MKR WAN 1310 to Sensor
1. Connect MKR WAN 1310 to Computer
1. Testing Soil Sensor Using Chirpstack

## Hardware Needed

- Micro USB Wire (other end must be able to connect to your computer)
- [Arduino MKR WAN 1310](https://store-usa.arduino.cc/products/arduino-mkr-wan-1310?selectedStore=us)
- Modified Colorado State University soil sensor with four jumper wires with female input
- LoRaWAN Gateway
    - we used [Rak Discover Kit 2](https://store.rakwireless.com/products/rak-discover-kit-2?variant=39942870302918)

## Installing Software

1. To connect to the MKR WAN 1310 board, you will need to install the [Arduino IDE](https://support.arduino.cc/hc/en-us/articles/360019833020-Download-and-install-Arduino-IDE)
1. Once you installed the IDE, you need to further install the board's software support by following the [SAMD21 core for MKR boards Documentation](https://docs.arduino.cc/software/ide-v1/tutorials/getting-started/cores/arduino-samd)

   <img src='./images/software_download.jpeg' alt='software download' height='200'>
1. You will also need the library for mkrwan. Under Library Manager, look up "mkrwan" and install "MKRWAN by Arduino".

   <img src='./images/library_download.jpeg' alt='library download' height='400'>
    
    >NOTE: At the time of configuring the board MKRWAN_v2 was not used because of bug issues related to the library.

## Connecting MKR WAN 1310 to Sensor

1. Grab the soil sensor

    <img src='./images/sensor.jpeg' alt='Sensor' height='400'>

2. Connect the wires from the sensor to the MKR WAN 1310 as shown:

    <img src='./images/sensor_connected.jpeg' alt='Connected Board' height='500'>

    > Note: red wire is for power, black is for ground, white for soil moisture, and blue for soil temperature

## Connect MKR WAN 1310 to Computer

1. Connect the board to your computer with the Micro USB wire
   1. You should see a green light glow on the board
1. Go to Tools in Arduino IDE and select `FILL OUT` for Board and select the correct serial port for the arduino as shown:

    `IMAGES GO HERE`

## Testing Soil Sensor Using Chirpstack

[Chirpstack](https://www.chirpstack.io/) was used to setup our LoRaWAN network and a RAK Discover Kit 2 was used as our Gateway.

>NOTE: We are using `US915` as our LoraWAN region. This must be changed in `main.ino` for different countries.

1. Retrieve your MKR WAN 1310's DevEUI by using `main.ino` in your `Arduino IDE`. The serial monitor will display your DevEUI.

    <img src='./images/DevEUI.jpeg' alt='DevEUI' height='50'>

    >NOTE: The program will fail because the device hasn't been given an App key

1. Using Chirpstack's UI, add your device using `OTAA` following [Chirpstack's Documentation](https://www.chirpstack.io/docs/guides/connect-device.html)

1. Once you've added your device, generate an application key or create one via the 'OTAA Keys' tab.

    <img src='./images/app_key.png' alt='App key' height='400'>

1. Provide the application key to `arduino_secrets.h`

    >NOTE: Chripstack does not use `APP EUI` when connecting devices via `OTAA` so this can be left as is.

1. Run `main.ino` in your `Arduino IDE`, if the device connects successfully the serial monitor will display the values the device is sending and chirpstack will receive a `join request` then the device's values.

    <img src='./images/uplink_packet.png' alt='Uplink Packet' height='500'>

    >NOTE: The device might take a couple of minutes to join the LoRaWAN network.
